hi ladies and gentlemen Andrew roan Beck
I'm the executive chef at the poker
table Resort and Club and today we're
going to make some fresh clam chowder
from scratch
clam chowder from scratch of course the
most important thing are the clams and
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna bring you
through all the ingredients that's
that's going to be necessary to make
this clam chowder of course some
beautiful fresh clams and then we have
some Yukon Gold potatoes that we're
going to add to our soup and then of
course I'm gonna use a little bit of
smoked bacon some onions some celery a
touch of garlic of course fresh thyme a
little bit of bay leaf and then we're
gonna finish the soup with a little bit
of fresh cream so let's get started
just for the sake of time here I've
already started I have some fresh clam
juice right here it's already hot I'm
ready to go so I would take my fresh
clams at this point which I washed very
very well to make sure there's no sand
on them I'm going to add those into my
into my clam juice and basically what
I'm going to end up with are my nice
beautiful steamed clams already open
again just for the sake of time we're
gonna move along once my clams are
opened I'm going to remove them and then
I'm going to shuck them and this is what
I'm going to end up with some beautiful
meaty
fresh clams that were going to rough
chop and finish off in the soup so while
once I remove those clams from here I'm
going to add in my potatoes next I want
to blanch my potatoes I want my potatoes
to a little past halfway so I'm going to
blanch those so they the starch gets in
that into that broth and I get a little
bit of clam flavor into my potatoes as
well so while those are blanching I'm
gonna move over to my other pot here and
I'm gonna start my other ingredients
okay I'm going to start with just a
touch of olive oil just a touch just to
get things going I'm gonna add in my
bacon okay I'm going to render down my
bacon actually I'm gonna do more than
render I'm going to make sure that my
bacon is fully cooked fully cooked nice
and brown because once that bacon sits
in the soup it'll start to get a little
soft so I want to make sure that my
Bacon's cooked again for the sake of
time we're gonna say our
makin is is crispy I'm gonna now add in
my onions I'm going to add in the fresh
celery
I'll put it all in okay we're gonna get
this going here just a touch I'm going
to add in just maybe like one clove or
fresh garlic just to wake this up and
really get going that's working very
nicely I'm going to add in my bay leaf
at this point toss that in here too is
essential ingredients for clam chowder
bay leaf and a little bit of fresh thyme
so I'm gonna add my fresh thyme in here
okay and I'm gonna let this just work
all together once my bacon is crispy and
I added in my onions my celery I want to
lower down my heat okay because now I'm
going to add a little bit of flour
that's called roux that's what's going
to thicken our clam chowder so I'm gonna
dust a little bit here with my flour
with my whisk I'm gonna start to make my
roux
DANC once we let that go Roux two
different things with roux
I'm making a blonde roux I don't want it
that's why we lowered down my heat I
don't want the heat to be too hot
because once I start to if I start to
burn the roux or start to add color to
the row it's going to change the color
of my soup so I want to make a blonde
roux
so I lower my temperature down I'm gonna
be a little patient with that and I'm
gonna let that cook out once you have
that once you have that toasted peanut
flavor then I'm good now I'm ready to go
with everything else I'm gonna take my
potatoes that were blanched in my clam
juice my hot clam juice I'm going to add
that in I'm gonna turn the heat back up
bring this up to a good simmer now I'm
gonna start the season a little bit of
white pepper a little bit of fresh sea
salt I'm gonna start letting all these
come together now you're gonna let this
cook out for about 10 or 15 or 15
minutes okay ten or 15 minutes and now
your rule will start to
thicken okay I'm going to take my clams
I don't want to overcook my clams I'm
gonna rough chop my fresh clams I like
to leave them a little on the large side
okay I'm gonna take those I'm gonna drop
those into my my soup I'm gonna let
those develop a little bit okay now I'm
going to have a nice medium consistency
here we're gonna let this cook out for
about 15 minutes gonna let all these
flavors at this point I didn't put the
cream in if I wanted to do that I would
turn my soup off after 15-20 minutes of
letting it cook I would allow it to cool
down then I would put it into the
refrigerator and then the next day if I
want that soup now I would finish it
with the cream like I said just before I
finish I'm going to finish my clam
chowder with just a little bit of cream
I also like my clam chowder to be a
little on the light side not so thick
like Elmer's glue and of course I'm
going to finish that with just a touch
of fresh parsley right on top to give it
that nice beautiful fresh clean color
that's how it's done
beautiful fresh clam chowder made from
scratch enjoy